

I have my implemetnation in the coding/open-docx repo.


owi  craeted the repo is creating spec files that are there in the specs folder.  Those are generated from onlyoffice, i dont want to tell that i used onlyoffice, sjut tell that i used opensource docx editor implementation, with two agent setup.


Two agnet setup:

asically i had agent in both the sdkjs and the open.doicx repo.
the agentsin the sdkjs repo were responsible for genreating spec files by the spec tempalte etc. The main point of here is that i wanted to generate specs that do not tell any itnernal reasoning of how to handle code or how the O Odid the implementation, just the internal docx behaviour and how xml etc fro mthe docx gets showsn then i nthe edior.

I 8used first agent to genretae initial architecture pipeline i want to ahndle.
Then started generating the spec files about all the different things docx viewer should be IMPORTANT THAT I DID NOT COPY OO; JUST READING WHAT DOCX VIEWER HSOULD DO AND GENERATED SPECS FROM IT.

Should probably show examle of spec file about what type of spec files i generated.


Then I had the open-.docx agents. I haver there the ralph script that handles then reading the spec files, and fro mthese starting generate the code. These agents only know the intiail architecture, roadmap, and the spec file that thye should be generaitng.TRyt ounderstadn the current relpah script.

Initial implementation was quite simple, jsut script that did implemetnation in loop until it thought it was done.
Then while i found problems in process, i added mroe and more extra steps, e.g. code quality step as last, and then the UI check steps later in the process.


But basic idea was same: CODE IS GENERATED FROM SPECS, and i have ralph script that goes over single specfile unitl it is done.

The process was not 100% smooth, but usable, as sometimes just havaing spec ifles also meant it couldnt reason good neough architecture for thei mplemeantion that i later needed to genreate new specs (But that is normal code generation, first do simple implemrantion ,then refactor into better).


I used two different models. I have Z.ai's pro coding model.
which gives me access GLM 5.1 model, which is decvent, but not state ofthe art (falsl short compared to openai's and anthropic best models). BUt what is great about it is their large token usage (100 million tokens / 5h).
Bad thing about it is that hteir coding lan has poor concurrency, so it is hard or impossible to get that 100 million tokens if you do not code outside of peak hours. So basically i have model which is relatively slow, which means i cant jsut run comamdn and expect to get answer soon, but it gives me access to do very large job if i give it just time.

Then I had codex, which is much better, much faster, but i'm limited to toke nusage, as i dont ave the largest plan, and wouldnt buy it due to my very alrge token usage.

So i had two systems, debugging and generating very detialed and ahrd to generate specs with the codex.
And working on the actual code with the GLM 5.1.

What is great about my setup is that as everything is just ralph scripts and secs, i dont really care if spec 051 taes 4 hours to finish, if it then finishes and has good output. so the time it takes or how much tokens it takes was not problem, as i couldnt in any ircumstance get over the generous token limit with the poor concurrency and slowness of the GLM coding plan.

So what I did is that I used very large amount of token in the span of week (that i have been working on this project). there's image of that in the GLM.png. BUt basically what we can see if 1.4 billion tokens in the span of 1 week.

And what is interesting is to show that the token usage is allmsot all the time on. But there are huge spikes at the morning and at the night. Basically what i did, is that in the morning and at the night, i was working on the specs, checked harder bugs, parallized agents as well as possible. but duing days, i was just running my ralph script like ./ralph 066 6 to run 6 iterations n the task 66.
Tooks couple seconds to write, and my machine starts to work o nthe task,even if it takes couple of hours to finish.

This was also possible due to having SSH conenction from my phone and using TERMUX. This made possible fro mmy phone startight run these commands that started the rlaph ascirtpts and showed is the ralph script finished. SO i got menaingful job done even if I was not at home.


Harness engineering.

Basically in the work i was worign on the docx editors and it made me think, how hard can it be to create own docx editor. And this was my attempt on it for limited timeframe. I'm quite pleased that it works, web docx editor using canvas where I was testing wit hthe demo.docx. i have that output.mp4 that hsows that it's quite close to the libreoffice implemetnation when comparing to the demo.docx docuemnt which contains many different docx features in a single docuemnt. SO i'm ahppy what was done, basic editing not working that well in all cases, but can type in normal docuemtn etc. But if i'm beign honest it's now more like vioewer than editor.

BUt the goal was not just gerneate docx editor. That's not important to me or interesting. not like i will generate docx editor and expect it to gai ntraction. BUt more like learn about harness engineering. There's that good blog about harness engineering fro mopenai, you should chekc it out.

So the goal was: how can i automatically generate as much code without ever me needing to actual understadn what happensi n the proejct. and also minimize my involvemtn in the process. at the strat it was ismple, but then i started to give more and more tools to the agents so they can make the checks themselves.

E.g. giving ti chrome devvtool mc server to actual see the thign s in the editor. And then i noticed that's not enough, it would be betetr if it understood images, so I gave Z.ai's image mcp tool.

Then now i had the tools agents can use, but nothign tell it to use them, so i genreeated skills that tell it how to sue these tools and how we should maximize their usage in ourproejct so it learns how to use them to see what's wrongi n our implemeatnionm. You shoudl check the .opencode/skills folder and what i have in the open.docx repo. that's interesting and shouwld show the exmaple oin the blog.

But that was not enough, then i gave toos for pixel differences between my implemetnation and how to take headless comparison with the libreoffice's implemetnation. NOw agents had tools to use their mcp tools to show their own iimplemetnation in the browser, but also run headless libreoffice at the same time. This allowed agent to take screenshots and compare them pixel-by-pixel to the "ground turth" implementation where we expect everything is right (libreoffice). Now agent did not need that much help fro mme to see bugs taht happens visually (but not perfect, some things still hard for it so i had to steer it in many times).

But after all these things: now i have the docx editor whic hwas generated with the spec driven way (TDD). where agetns both gerneate the code, run the applciation, and ocmpare the output with the ground turth on how it should look like and make own adjustments by thjese findings.

The process is not perfect and some thigns it is just inherently hard for it, ut the idea of creating this type of process where I do nt need to see whta agent is doing, and makign the process itself better anmd betetr for the agent is very usefull.

What this process increased was just token usage and itme for it to implement features, but that basically for me was not a problem as it had basically unlimited tokens but the use of tokens was just slow.

so here was some of my thoughts of the blog, basically, i want to genreate some type of blog about the ideas here. what i find interetesting here is the harness engineering, the setup i had, how to use models, rlaph scripting etc. Not sure what the view point i want take here is as there's al ot of stuff, but all them goes beutifully together for the actual project that i think was good enough. not sure how to say it, but web based docx viewers i thin kare not just toy projects in a sense, like they are osmehwat complex in the logic, and i was able to gerneate something working in a week by utilizing my agents to their max (token maxxing).
